Your iPhone not turning on could be for a number of reasons. First, make sure it is charged. Leave it plugged in for at least 5-10 minutes before trying to turn it on if it isn’t charged. If that doesn’t work, then try to hard-reset your phone. To do this, hold the HOME and POWER buttons together, and you should see the apple logo after a few seconds. Note that severe damage may prevent your device from working.
Try using another cable and power adapter that you know works on another apple device, to see if the problem lies with your phone or your charger. Make sure the charger you’re using is a genuine apple brand, and not a fake. If your iPhone still isn't charging, this could mean there's something wrong with the charging port. check to see if there's any dust or other small objects obstructing it, and make sure the charger fits in properly (not hanging loosely).
Make sure your hands are clean and dry, as well as the screen. Start with turning your iPhone off and on again. If you are unable to, because the screen is completely unresponsive, hard reset your device. To do this, press the HOME and POWER button simultaneously until the screen goes off, and you see the apple logo. If this doesn't work, try taking off any casing or screen protectors, to see if they were the cause of the problem.
You need to check iPhone’s brightness first. To do this, you swipe upwards from the bottom and a toolbar should appear with the brightness slider along with other options. You can also find this slider in the settings of your phone, under ‘display brightness’. Once the slider has been located, slide to the right to increase brightness, and left to decrease. Turn off auto brightness if there is no change. If the problem persists, this could mean damage to your screen, meaning you will need to contact Apple.
Make sure you turn up your volume. This can be done by pressing the volume keys located on the side of your device (usually the left). The one on top increases volume, whilst the one on the bottom decreases volume. You can also access a volume slider by swiping upwards from the bottom of the screen. If not, try going to settings and looking for ‘sound’, where you can move the slider from there. Also, make sure the device isn’t on mute. There is a little switch above the volume UP button. If it is up, then your device isn’t muted. However, if it’s down and you can see a small orange strip above the switch, this indicates your iPhone is muted. Make sure it’s upwards and try again. If the problem persists, this could mean a problem with your speakers. Hard falls and water damage can affect the speakers, but it’s best to contact Apple and have a specialist look at it.