Your Samsung not turning on could be for a number of reasons. First, make sure it is charged. Leave it plugged in for at least 5-10 minutes before trying to turn it on if it isn’t charged. If you can because of your model, remove the battery and replace it. This is called a soft reset. If that doesn’t work, then try to hard-reset your phone. To do this, hold the POWER and VOLUME UP buttons together, and your phone should reboot after a few seconds. Note that severe damage may prevent your device from working.
Try using another cable and power adapter that you know works on another phone. Remember that Samsung devices can be charged with chargers of different brands (i.e. Sony), so make sure that you’re using the charger that came with the phone, or a genuine Samsung charger. If your Samsung still isn't charging, this could mean there's something wrong with the charging port. check to see if there's any dust or other small objects obstructing it, and make sure the charger fits in properly (not hanging loosely). Some Samsung models have an LED light that illuminates when the device is charging, so you can use that as an indicator.
Make sure your hands are clean and dry, as well as the screen. Start with turning your Samsung off and on again.  If you can, remove the battery and replace it. This is called a soft reset. If that doesn't work, hard reset your device. To do this, press the POWER and VOLUME UP buttons simultaneously, and the phone should reboot. If this doesn't work, try taking off any casing or screen protectors, to see if they were the cause of the problem.
You need check your Samsung’s brightness. Swipe downwards from the top of the screen (you may need to do this once or twice depending on your model) and the slider should appear along with other options. You can also find this slider in the settings of your phone by going to the ‘display’ option and then the ‘brightness’ option. Once the slider has been located, slide to the right to increase brightness, and left to decrease. Turn off auto brightness if there is no change. If the problem persists, this could mean damage to your screen, meaning you will need to contact Samsung.
Make sure you turn up your volume. This can be done by pressing the volume keys located on the side of your device (usually the right). The one on top increases volume, whilst the one on the bottom decreases volume. You can also access a volume slider by going to settings and looking for ‘sound and notification’. Also, make sure the device isn’t on silent or vibration. If the problem persists, this could mean a problem with your speakers. Hard falls and water damage can affect the speakers, but it’s best to contact Samsung and have a specialist look at it.