Your phone not turning on could be for a number of reasons. First, make sure it is charged. Leave it pluged in for at least 5-10 minutes before trying to turn it on. Another possibility is that you might not be holding down the power button for long enough. Try holding it down for at least 10 seconds to see if that helps. Check your phone for any damage. Severe damage may prevent it from working, (e.g dropping it from a high place or any kind of water damage) and if this is the case, you must go to the phone manufacturer's shop or a repair shop to get your phone looked at.
Try using another cable and power adapter that you know works on another phone, to see if the problem lies with your phone or your charger. If your phone charges after this, then it was your charger that was the problem. If the phone isn't charging, this could mean there's something wrong with the charging port. check to see if there's any dust or things obstructing it, and make sure the charger fits in properly(not hanging loosley) and your battery works too. There is most likley a problem with your charging port. You will have to take your phone to the manufacturer to get them to sort it out.
If you find your touch screen unresponsive, try starting with turning your device off and on again. If the touch screen only unresponsive in certain places, try to re-calibrate the screen (can be found in the settings of some phones) and see if it works. If this doesn't work, this could mean that your touch screen is broken, and you will have to get it replaced. If you do not wish to pay for a new touch screen, you can first try and factory reset the phone to see if that works.
Make sure you turn up your volume. This can be done by pressing the volume keys usually located on the side of your device. If not, try going to settings and looking for the option relating to sound. If the problem persists, this could mean a problem with your speakers. Go to your phone's manufacturer or repair shop for further assistance.
Sim Card: Make sure you have a SIM card inserted first! Credit: Make sure you have sufficient credit if you are on a pay as-you-go plan or you have sufficient minitues if you are on a monthly plan. Coverage: Make sure you have network coverage in your area. If not, try and move to an area with better coverage. If this still doesn't resolve your issue, talk to your network provider. Valid Number: Make sure the number you want to call is valid and their phone is on. If not, a call will not take place.
Sim Card: Make sure you have a SIM card inserted first! Credit: Make sure you have sufficient credit if you are on a pay as-you-go plan or you have sufficient texts if you are on a monthly plan. Coverage: Make sure you have network coverage in your area. If not, try and move to an area with better coverage. Valid Number: Make sure the number you want to text is valid. If not, your text will not send. If this could mean a problem with your phone or network provider. Contact your network provider about the issue after making sure your phone isn't the problem.
Mobile data: If you're using your mobile data (3G/4G usually), ensure you have netowork coverage (Usually displayed in a top corner of your phone) and that you have enough internet data on your sim Make sure mobile data is enabled in your phone's settings. Wifi: Make sure that you are within a suitable range of a wifi hotspot or hub and that wifi is enabled in your settings. Make sure the souce of wifi is turned on and connected to the internet. Ensure you have entered the wifi password beforehand and if you are tethered to another device, ensure you are within range and that it has enough internet data too. Mobile data: Contact your netowork provider about your issue. Wifi: Contact your ISP about your issue.
The first thing to do is check your screen brightness. There are different ways to do this, depending on your phone. For example, on an iPhone, you swipe upwards from the bottom and the slider should appear, whereas on andriod, you usually swipe downwards from the top once (or twice) and the slider should appear. However, on all devices, you can find this slider in the settings of your phone, most likley under the 'screen and display' option or something along those lines. Once the slider has been located, slide to the right nd the brightness should increase. Another thing to do is turn off auto brightness (if your phone has it) and manually control screen brightness. If the problem persists, This could mean possible damage to your screen, possibly the light filters. This damage is repairable, but you will have to go to your phone's manufacturer store for further advice. If you really don't want to, you can always try a factory reset before taking it to the phone's manufacturer.
Make sure you know where your microphone is, as the location varies with devices. If you can't find it, look in the manual that should've come with your phone or go online to get a diagram your phone, that should indicate where the microphone is, along with other parts. Once you've located your microphone, check to see if there is anything obstructing it (e.g dust) and try to clean it out by either blowing gently into it or using a soft cloth (like a glasses' claeaner). If your phone has recently been dropped or has sustained water damage, this could cause problems with the microphone. However, it could simply be an app that prevents the mic from working properly. Either identify the app, or factory reset your phone, making sure to back up all of your data first. If these solutions don't work, this is an indication of your mic being broken, therefore you will have to go to your phone's maufacturer to try and repair it, or even replace it.
